JAKE ARCHIBALD:
This is my favorite.
It's the only reason
I do the series.
[INAUDIBLE] It's why
I get really like,
if it's not happening, I'm like,
whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Want the face massage.
SPEAKER 1: Not doing
a face massage.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Well, it's--
you call it what you want.
I'll call it what I want.
And we're all.
SURMA: Brow strokes.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
We built a thing.
SURMA: Did we?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: We
built a thing and I'm--
SURMA: Have we ever
talked about this thing?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: We talk about--
SURMA: On 203.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: --nothing but.
And this is it.
This is--
SURMA: Squoosh.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
--we've got the fox.
It's image compression,
web app thing.
All runs on the web.
As you can see, image has
gone from two point whatever
makes it to--
SURMA: It's great.
Check it out if you haven't.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Anyway,
whatever, whatever.
But, but what I want you to
talk about is share target.
SURMA: All right.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: All right, so--
SURMA: So share target
is already a thing.
It's been already shipped
and is stable, right?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Parts of it
have and parts of it haven't.
SURMA: Oh, it's part-- oh.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And I'm going
to go through both of them.
SURMA: All right, cool.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So
here's what it does.
SURMA: Oh, look at
our stupid faces.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Here's
This is Google Photos.
This is the native
app on Android.
I'm going to hit Share.
And I'm going to share to--
SURMA: There's a Squoosh.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: --Squoosh.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And
this is just a web app.
SURMA: So we just shared from
a native app to a web app.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: To a web app.
SURMA: That's pretty cool.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Which is nice.
SURMA: Like even its
entire image and things.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Yes, and it works.
And it feels like a
real native experience.
SURMA: So now I can actually--
I mean, this is the workflow
that we have been missing,
right?
Because you want to
compress your image.
How do you get your image
from Photos into Squoosh?
You have to open Squoosh,
say load an image,
select the Photos app.
Then you get the
selective all the images.
And now you go, image flunk.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Yes, and so anything
that can share images--
SURMA: That's the
official sound, isn't it?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Flunk.
Yeah.
Well, it means you could
do that from Twitter.
From anything that will
actually share an image,
you could then take it
straight into Squoosh.
SURMA: So is that only for--
it's a manifest thing I presume?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It is.
This is one of the few PWA
only features that we have.
SURMA: You mean, only
once it's installed,
it will actually work.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Exactly.
Yes.
SURMA: So visiting
the page, like if I've
visited Squoosh in my
browser, it will not
register as a share target.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It will not
SURMA: Cool.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: The way
you do it, like you say,
is in the web app manifest.
So--
SURMA: You know these things.
OK.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Name, start
URL, that's all the usual stuff.
But then oh.
SURMA: Oh, share target.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Share target.
OK.
And then an action.
Now, this is action in the
same way form action works.
So--
SURMA: OK.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Because what
share target's going to do,
the way it's going
to share the things
is it's going to make
like a form submission.
SURMA: So like a POST request.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Well--
SURMA: Or not.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: --you get
to specify the method.
And this works the same--
SURMA: All right,
so in the form,
you do that as well actually.
Now they say that.
I haven't done form in
ages, now that I say that.
But yeah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah,
well, this is it.
It does exactly the
same as a method does.
SURMA: It's like a form.
Cool.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
And you can specify
the encoding type, which is
the same as how form works.
SURMA: So we spare
our share target.
But in coding time,
we shorten to enctype?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Because that's
the attribute on the form
element.
SURMA: I didn't even
know that existed.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah,
yeah, no, this is a thing.
If you have a file
input in a form,
you have to set the enctype
to multi-part form data.
Because that's the only form
encoding that supports files.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
This format doesn't.
The enctype only matters
if you're on a POST method.
SURMA: So x in the
form [INAUDIBLE]
means all the things in
my form, whatever it is,
will be appended to the action
URL as query parameters.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Well, that
depends on what method it is.
SURMA: Ah, of course.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Like if it's POST,
it will be sent
as the POST body.
SURMA: Yes.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: If
it's GET, you're right,
it's going to end up
at the end of the URL.
And then you specify
these parameters.
SURMA: So quick, quick
comment, because I'm curious.
If I already have some query
parameters in my action URL,
will it successfully merge?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes, it will.
SURMA: Oh.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah, yeah.
SURMA: OK, cool.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I imagine.
SURMA: [LAUGHS]
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Have not tested it.
But that's what form does.
SURMA: OK, cool.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So we would
expect the same thing here.
And here, it's the things the
operating system may give you
as part of a share is the
title, the text, the URL.
SURMA: So this is the classic
text share or link share
kind of thing.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah.
And I'm mapping it to
the form field names
that I'm interested in.
SURMA: So and If I
remember correctly,
that is the part that is
already shipped and stable.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: This
is shipped and stable.
This has been in
since 71 on Android.
So I've built a web
app that uses this.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah?
SURMA: Show me.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah.
SURMA: Show me your
work, your glorious--
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
What this does, this
is the text share target app.
And what it does, it
tells you what the URL is.
SURMA: That's [LAUGHS]
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Very good.
Look, it's a good app.
And what I'm going to
do is I'm going to--
SURMA: And have it
installed to home screen.
Because it's that good.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
I use it all the time.
I'm going to go into
the YouTube native app.
I'm going to go in to
look at these jokers.
And I'm going to share.
And I can share to that app.
SURMA: All right.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And if I share--
SURMA: There you go.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So
the URL is blah.
SURMA: Blah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It's
got all that stuff on.
And, you know,
break it apart here.
The share title is now Watch
Context and Optimizations
on YouTube.
And you should.
And the new share
text, which is the URL.
Now, it's a bit weird
that the text is the URL.
And there's a URL--
SURMA: Yeah, I hate that.
Because you know how
when you sometimes
share from the Twitter app to
like Whatsapp or something--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes.
SURMA: --read this tweet.
I'm like, no.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
And that is going
to pick up that horrible text.
And you're really going
to receive whatever
the native app is giving you.
SURMA: Yeah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
And so you kind of
have to deal with
that, which is sad.
SURMA: That being said,
this is pretty cool.
Like, I can share-- be a
share target for link sharing
and stuff.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yep, and
if I go into Photos now,
like I did before, I
can do the same thing,
share to the text share target.
It's going to ask me if I
want to create a link or a--
SURMA: Because it's only
a text share target.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Because it
is just a text share target.
And it is-- the share text
that comes out is a link to--
SURMA: And there's no
[INAUDIBLE] saying, check out
this image from Jake Archibald.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Well,
yeah, so this is
better that what we had before.
But-- but in version
two of share target,
you can share files.
SURMA: Hey.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Did
you see that coming?
Brilliant.
SURMA: You already
showed me, mate.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah.
Yeah, I did sort of
destroy the surprise
in the first couple of seconds
of the video, didn't I?
Fair enough.
SURMA: Good storyteller
right there.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So
slightly different.
Back again in the manifest.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Action same.
Method POST this time.
Because if you're
going to receive files,
it has to be POST.
The encoding type is
multi-platform data.
It has to be that
if you want files.
SURMA: Yeah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
And you can still
put the usual parameters in.
But there's this new
one, which is files.
And you have an array.
SURMA: So the mere
existence, it has
to be POST and file to
basically make your file target?
Or is files--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: If
you have GET in there,
it will throw a warning into
the console and say, er.
SURMA: That doesn't make sense.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: No,
it just does that. er.
You have to work out
the rest yourself.
SURMA: The play button.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So
here I'm saying files.
And this is the mapping again.
I'm saying the name of
the form field is file.
I can call that whatever I want.
SURMA: Oh, and you can
fill it by MIME type.
That's good.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And you
can fill it by MIME type.
SURMA: So if I just
have images, you
can say image slash
star I presume.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah,
which is actually--
we had this problem in
Squoosh, because we've made it
so you can load WebP in browsers
that don't support WebP.
SURMA: Yeah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: But if you and
try and fill it by MIME type,
the browser goes, I don't
understand what WebP is.
This is not an image.
So we had to sort of
do this same hack.
Even though we're wanting
to receive images,
we had to say well,
we accept anything.
Because we will
take file formats
that the operating system
browser doesn't understand.
SURMA: Makes sense, yeah.
OK.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So
yeah, that's that.
SURMA: So you say this gives
me a POST request, right?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes.
SURMA: So that is
not as easy to handle
as a GET request
with parameters.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes, I
mean, by default, this
will just go to your server.
And your server handles it.
SURMA: True.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Which
might be OK in some cases.
SURMA: Yeah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: But for Squoosh,
we want it to work offline.
SURMA: Right.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So
we don't want this
to actually go to the server.
We don't want it to
depend on a server.
SURMA: There is no server.
We are serverless.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: We're
serverless, another buzzword
that we encompass.
So in order to solve
this, service worker.
SURMA: Into the
service worker we go.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes.
SURMA: All right.
So now, this is, I think this
would be the first time, no
the second, no
the first time I'm
handling a POST request in
my service worker I think.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah?
SURMA: Yeah, although, I think
maybe in WordPress when you
post a comment I did it, maybe.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I've
done it before to trap
POST requests that didn't
work and saved them for later,
that sort of thing.
SURMA: Oh, with background sync.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: With
background sync.
But in this case, what I'm
going to do, look at the URL.
And if it's the
same origin request
and if it's to the share target,
this is all what we set up--
SURMA: Yeah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: This is all
what we set up in the manifest.
And if it's a POST thing, we're
going to do something else.
We're going to do
something magic.
It's not magic.
SURMA: The rest stays the same.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah.
so you still have the rest
of your service worker logic
there.
We're just catching
this one case.
And what we're
going to do, we're
going to respond
with a redirect.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And
this is basically
what you would do
on the server side.
SURMA: Yeah, I think you
basically never respond
to a POST request with content.
You could say no
content or a redirect.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
You would sometimes
respond with a content if
it was an error in the POST.
SURMA: True.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Because
you would send back
the form with all the data,
but one field saying this one's
wrong.
But if stuff is correct, you
tend to serve a redirect.
And that's because-- I don't
know, you might have seen this,
where you hit Refresh
on a page and it says--
SURMA: Do you want to resubmit?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Exactly.
And that's because this
page was a POST response,
a response to a POST request.
So you serve a redirect.
That makes it a GET request.
And the user can hit Refresh
and it's not a problem.
So we're just doing that.
SURMA: So with a redirect,
the body will still get--
that will make the browser
to a GET request after.
Right?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes.
SURMA: So you will have to read
the body on the POST request
and then pass it along to
the GET request somehow?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: To the page.
Well, no, we can pass it
along just to the page.
SURMA: Yeah, OK
JAKE ARCHIBALD: There
are redirect codes
that say if this
was a POST request,
you should do a POST request
again with the same data.
But the default redirect
stuff doesn't do that.
SURMA: Yeah, OK.
So basically, what
you're doing is
you're ripping out the body
from the POST requests.
Meanwhile, you're
redirecting the client,
which will send a GET request,
hit your normal service worker
path, hit the cache,
load the page.
Great.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah, that's
an important detail actually.
It redirects.
It will send it back
through the service worker.
SURMA: Yeah.
So now the page is up.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Well,
the page is not up yet.
Because this is
at the same time,
we are going to,
as you say, we're
going to get that form
data, which is what
the share target's giving us.
It's going to give us that file.
We're going to do this.
And this is a relatively--
SURMA: Oh, clients.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah.
SURMA: So I know clients exists.
It's like all the clients,
the tabs, if you want to--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And workers.
SURMA: And workers simply said
that belong to the service
worker.
Right?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes.
SURMA: Or that are handled
by the service worker.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes.
The ones that are
controlled, you
can actually get all of the
ones from the origin as well.
SURMA: Yeah.
So I never used it.
I know it exists.
But this would be the first time
I have seen a use case for it.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And
this is quite a new bit
here, this resultingClientID.
And what it's saying is
like, there's not a page yet.
But here's an ID for it
for whenever it appears.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And so
when clients don't get it,
it's going to wait
until that page appears.
SURMA: So that will
be the page that you
have spawned by the redirect.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes.
Yes.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Well, if I
didn't redirect, it would be--
SURMA: The page
that-- yeah, sure.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: You create.
Yes, so it's the page that
results as part of this fetch.
So yes, I get the client.
And that won't work
if the redirect
goes to another origin.
Or it won't work if the page
fails to load for that reason.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: But we're
getting the client here.
Because it's going to work.
SURMA: It's our client.
So we can have it.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yep.
Get the file out
of the form data.
SURMA: From the [INAUDIBLE] OK.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Using
the name that we gave it.
SURMA: So this will incorporate
all the multi-part MIME
decoding under the hood and
giving you an early buffer,
a blob, something, a file.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: You get
a file, a file object.
SURMA: Cool.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yep.
And now I'm going to
postMessage that to the page.
SURMA: Oh, postMessage.
There it is again.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Good
old postMessage.
And that means over in my page
I can listen for that message.
SURMA: Why didn't you
transfer the file?
These are transferable.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I probably
should transfer it.
SURMA: Ha!
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Server wins again.
Well, here's an
interesting thing.
I don't know how much it
saves if you transfer a file.
Because it's read
only data, right?
SURMA: That's a good question.
I've no idea.
It's not like it's-- we saw
it doesn't really make things
slow.
It was a pretty big image.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah.
We could transfer it.
And through doing that,
I have another demo.
SURMA: Oh, oh boy.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah.
Yeah.
You ready?
So it's--
SURMA: Oh, it's the same symbol.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: But it's
the file share target.
And this is what it says.
You can share files to this app.
And it's not wrong.
You absolutely can.
SURMA: And that is already
an achievement for an app
that you wrote.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And I will share
links to these little demos.
Because they are like
good minimal cases.
And so it is going
to appear here.
SURMA: There it is.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: There
it is file share target.
SURMA: Oh, look
you even show it.
It's like Squoosh.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Exactly,
just much simpler.
And it just gives you
the details the file.
You get the name, the
size, the MIME type.
SURMA: Two megs.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
It's all in there.
And it's sort of two
megs or whatever.
But this is just a very like--
that's exactly what
we're doing with Squoosh.
But obviously, we're doing
the rest of Squoosh around it.
So the result is you
can press Squoosh
as if it's a native app.
And there you go.
And you can start
editing the image.
SURMA: Hey.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And
that's the target.
SURMA: So this in
Canary right now?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: This is--
SURMA: Right row?
Right row?
Right now.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Well, I
wish we were in Canary--
This is in Canary right now.
Yes.
SURMA: All right.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: They're starting
the launch process for it.
SURMA: Yeah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Just
fixing a few bugs.
So this should land
in a few months.
SURMA: This would be a
great origin trial actually.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I think
they're just going to ship.
I'm think they've
got an agreement to--
SURMA: Screw it.
Ship it.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Exactly.
And I think it's great.
I think it's one of the--
this is a huge step
towards really native.
SURMA: It really is.
Because if you could
actually-- you know,
I've always thought
about my Android workflow
as a phone works.
It's like start an app.
You do a thing.
And you share to the next app.
And you kind of have this chain.
Like I remember like a
Unix pipes back in the day.
And then at the end you send
it by email or whatever.
Such with images.
You take an image.
Then you share it
to a photo editor.
And you share to email.
Cool.
And now you can have your
web apps in that chain.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah.
SURMA: And that's really big.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And
it's not just images.
SURMA: Sure.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It's any kind
of file that you want to accept.
So there we go.
That's share target.
We'll link to these demos.
And we'll link to articles and
stuff and the specs in the--
SURMA: Thing-a-ma-bob.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: --in the thing.
SURMA: Yeah.
Down there.
Give it a try.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: We good to go?
SPEAKER 4: Absolutely.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Amazing.
SURMA: That was a
fake confidence.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah.
Just got to remember
what I'm doing now.
SURMA: Share target, mate.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: All right,
let's do share target.